Why in news? India’s exclusive rights to explore polymetallic nodules from seabed in Central Indian Ocean Basin (CIOB) have been extended by five years by Internatio
nal Seabed Authority. Details India is the first country to have received the status of a pioneer investor in 1987 and was allocated an exclusive area in Central Indian Ocean Basin by United Nation
s (UN) for exploration and utilization of nodules.  India had signed a 15 year contract for exploration of Polymetallic Nodules in Central Indian Ocean Basin with the International Seabed
 Authority on March 25, 2002. In 2016 the govt approved extension of this contract upto 2022.  India is implementing a long–term programme on exploration and
 utilization of Polymetallic Nodules (Polymetal
lic Nodules programme) through Ministry of Earth Sciences.  India is presently having an area of 75,000 square km, located about 160
0 km away from her southern tip. Polymetallic 
nodules resource potential in this site is 380 million tonnes. Importance  India’s exclusive rights for exploration of Polymetallic Nodules in the allotted area in the Central Indian Ocean Basin will continue and would open new opportunities for resourc
es of commercial and strategic value.  India is entirely dependent on imports to meet its requirements of cobalt, which is the most strategic of the three metals (cobalt, co
mmunities and attaining greater social and economic inclusion by providing Employment opportunities, skill-sets and capacities. 
Providing a boost to coastal and national economies and development of blue economy.  Promoting entrepreneurship in new areas of economic activity and new development in electronics industry. Strategic advantages
  Presently, China is controlling more than 95% of rare earth metals. 
This move will nullify the increasing influence of China.  It will strengthen the bilateral relationship of India w
ith Japan, Germany and South Korea. Challenges: Technological and Environmental issues  The specialized drills and extraction-technolo